# Incident: 2025-04-08 12-17-24

## Summary

Between the hour of 12:17 and 12:21 MDT on April 8th, two users encountered an inability to purchase pizza. The event was triggered by a malfunction with the pizza factory at 12:17. The error contained a url that our developers had to visit.

A bug in this code caused Pizzas from the factory to not be properly created. The event was detected by our metrics and logging systems. The team started working on the event by 12:19 MDT. This incident affected all users who ordered pizza.

No support tickets etc. were raised in relation to this incident.

```

## Detection

This incident was detected when a grafana alert was triggered and Luke Grundvig was paged.

Given the time of response and scope, no actions are needed.
```

## Impact

For 4 minutes between 18:19 UTC and 18:21 UTC on {04/08/25}, those who ordered pizza experienced this incident.

This incident affected an estimated 2 customers approx 1% OF SYSTEM USERS, who experienced an inability to order pizza.

0 SUPPORT TICKETS AND 0 SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS were submitted.

````

## Timeline

```md

All times are UTC.

- _18:17_ - Error first detected
- _18:18_ - Luke Grundvig notified by email
- _18:19_ - Luke Grundvig acknowledged error
- _18:20_ - Error log identified, and link followed
- _18:21_ - Service returned to normal
- _18:22_ - Error marked as resolved
````

## Response

After receiving a page at 18:18 UTC, Luke Grundvig came online at 18:19 UTC in grafana.

This engineer solved the problem by 18:21 UTC.

````

## Root cause

```md
A chaos attack by BYU caused the problem.
````

## Resolution

By following the link in the error log, the service endpoint was rendered useful again.

This was confirmed by the grafana metrics returning to normal levels.

````

## Prevention

```md
There are no other similar incidents. This will be prevented in the future by not doing further chaos testing.
````

## Action items

```md
Current systems are adequate.
```
